Welcome back.
Let's talk about the second point of making a progressive web app and probably the cutest little icon
that I'm going to have in this course.
The app manifest now for a progressive web app to behave like a native app.
We need to mimic not just the function of a native app but also some of the views that we get with it
or the shell.
For example on your phone you can download an app and have an app icon on Android devices you have things
such as splash screens.
The idea is to make the web app as indistinguishable as possible to a real mobile app and we can do
that with the app manifest before we get into it though.
The one thing I do want to point is that a lot of people forget to include in their index that a shemale
file this line over here and this comes out of the box with create react app.
You can see that I'm in the public index not Asian mail folder and this line which is the meta tag with
viewport optimizes the app for multiple devices.
And this might seem super obvious but a lot of people forget it.
And this line helps with adjusting the screen size based on the device.
So this is a must and it will warn you if you're missing this line and the lighthouse report.
So now that we have the screen setup for mobile devices let's talk about the app manifest file and as
you can see in our public folder again this is something that we get for free from create react app
and this is it.
This is the manifest Dodd Jason File.
It's a simple Jason File that gives the developers the ability to control how the app should appear
to the user in areas where they would expect to see apps such as the mobile device home screen and just
define how the app is going to launch and how it's going to look.
So if you remember in my example over here with this hacker new SAP we had the ad to home screen button
in the application tab and you might have noticed that we actually clicked on this thing called manifest
in the application and that's the manifest dot Jason File the browser reads this and spits out this
little piece of information for us.
And if I scroll down you see that I have icons here that get downloaded just like I did for when I downloaded
it onto my home screen.
And this is the icon that you'll see when you download this app on your mobile phone.
And it also gives us this nice little feature to add to home screen.
So this is the app manifest file and what it does.
Now how do we generate these icons we see over here that create react app has generated a father called
in the public folder but we're missing a few things aren't we.
We don't have all these other sized icons for mobile phones because we still need to generate them for
our app.
You can see here that they have different sizes based on whichever device this gets downloaded on luckily
for us.
There's a great tool that does this very nicely and easily.
It's called real time econ generator and this all we need to do is provide an image such as an image
of a robot by just clicking on select to have a compactor and we'll take you through the steps to download
these and all we need to do is include them in our public folder just like the fab on icon laws and
reference them in the manifest.
Dot JSA.
And don't worry this is exactly what we're going to do in our exercise to turn our robo friends up into
a progressive web app.
Another thing that this Web site does for us is previewing and customizing the splash screen for our
manifest file.
Now what is a splash screen in older versions of Chrome for Android.
Tapping on the home screen icon for an app would often take up to a couple of hundred milliseconds before
that screen gets loaded.
A user would see a white screen which makes the experience a little bit jarring and it looks like the
Web site is loading really slow.
So chrome 47 and above support this idea of a splash screen where you can add a background color when
you tap on the app.
The progressive web app instead of loading the white screen it's going to load something called a splash
screen where it'll have the background color the name an icon of the web app and you will get that all
from our manifest the Jason File.
And this is all done simply to make your web app feel a lot closer to what you see with native apps.
When you click on native apps even if they're loading they have some sort of a background an icon to
show you that it is loading.
Overall though that's it.
That's pretty simple right.
All we need is some icons and add them to manifest Dot.
Jason JSA that's it for now.
I'll see in the next one.
Bye bye.